# XPRIZE Wildfire TRACK A | All Teams Call — Transcript
**Date:** 2026-03-17
**Granola link:** https://notes.granola.ai/t/2dbd1205-53c8-4d2b-95dc-0f1d5e066466

---

Them: Today. Hi, ale. X. Sorry. I hope people don't mind. I'm munching on some popcorn. No, no, don't worry. Yeah, don't mind at all. Claudia and Alvia. So we are integrating satellites one after another. Trying to. Or at least trying to, I would say. So one question is that if we get orogartic satellite or is not coming as a partner, but just as a satellite provider, is that okay? I know that they were disqualified, right from this competition. So that's why I wanted to ask. We haven't integrated them. You guys are purchasing your Purchasing the data, Yes. Yeah. So they're disqualified as a competitor. But you, as teams, can decide where you want to purchase your data from. You just can't. They can't be a partner or a competing team. Hey. Nick. Body. I'll pass it to you. You want to kick it off? With the understanding that it's very, very early in Australia and appreciate everybody's attendance. Welcome, everybody. Thank you so much for being here. Again. It feels like time is moving very fast, and there's so many moving pieces. So we wanted to provide this time for you to ask questions. As you may have seen, the rules and regulations I've gone out, so I'm sure there is a lot of questions around that hopefully we'll get around to answering most of them. If not, we can send a follow up via email. It's also being recorded. So I'll share that as well. But, yeah, jump in with any questions, if you have any. Question about the hotel block. Is there any movement on that? We are looking to split the time. So we're going to be sending one person for the first half for a range of dates and another person for the second half range of dates, and so we want to make sure that we're able to do that. In. Don't relay too much. So if there's not a block, we want to make other arrangements if we need to. Absolutely. I can alternate persons. Yeah. Sorry. No, you're right. You can definitely alternate people. We ended up just sending across a list of hotels that had good pricing. We didn't do a hotel block just because we wanted to give teams kind of the range of being able to opt for what they thought fit best for. Their budget and schedule. So those were hotels that were showing that they had availability for the entirety of the time. That was a couple weeks ago, but we can resend that out. And if anybody has. If you want us to be able to, yeah. I'm not sure we got that one. I'm not seeing it, so if you would mind resending, that'd be great. Okay. I don't recall. TC Male yeah, I may have missed that. If you could please resend. Yeah. Thank you. Just do it. In the chat, there was a no before youe. Go with superliminary information. But that is a work in progress. We'll update it accordingly as more information trickle. In. We also have a, like, a, you know, travel app that or travels, like, site that lets us, like, filter out hotels that are already sold out. So if anybody's having real issues trying to find something for the timelines, Shoot us an email. We can't book it for you, but we can give you a couple options that are in the vicinity. You may have to go. There's a big Easter event right at the Olympic park those first days, so you might need to go out a little. We're staying up by Parramatta. Well, maybe since we start to talk about arrangements, a couple of things. So I micro read that we are supposed to be there already on the seventh to start preparation. Or that starting preparation is for the agencies of world setting fires, etc. 7 April, 8 April in Australia will be the day that we're going to convene for the first time at RFS headquarters. Each team will be there. We're going to do a quick dry run, setting expectations for the rest of the days, so we do expect teams to be present. On the 8th of April? Yeah, seven for the folks who won't be in Australia, I guess. Yeah, thanks. I'm just deciding whether I'm spending Easter on the plane. It's matter of arrangements. Thanks. I'll add on to that one more question is that given that there is a war going on in Iran, right, Will there be any kind of disruptions to you? Because we are buying the tickets, right? Do you predict any kind of disruptions happening, things getting cancelled or like that due to that? Hopefully no. I've seen that there have been some rerouting over Asia, but for I guess the European country or the European teens might have some difficulty. I'm not sure about that. I've heard that other European aircraft are increasing their services. To meet Gap, but it's a change. Yeah. For us. I think we can go Pacific, so it's purely fine. I checked a few days ago. There is regular service. You need to fly through Hong Kong. Of course, you need to avoid the Saudi Arabia. Or in the peninsula. Should be fine. But Colin, sorry, you had unmuted yourself to add some more information before. I'm about to add it in the chat and writing just so it's easily visible. But seventh and eighth, yeah. Was my intent just to amplify the dates. Any other questions or comments? Maybe let me continue talking too much. Still, on logistics side, can we expect any extension of the window in case there are no conditions? For prescribed fires, etc. Or we call it a day on the 21st or whatever happens. Would you like me to take that one, Claudia? It's a great question, and we won't know the answer until the 24th or 25th of April. Unfortunately, we believe that we've built enough contingency into the timeline to conduct all the testing we need to do. But that said, we cannot control the weather, so we will aim to get as many burns as we can done during that period, which should tick everything off. But I don't think you need to look at extending your stay in Australia past the 22nd local time. Thank you very much. Yeah, Andrew, that's a good point. Has anyone met Abby? Abby, would you like to introduce yourself? Absolutely. Nice to meet y'all. Abby Peacock. I'm supporting XPRIZE Wildfire Marketing. So you'll be working with me in the marketing team on reviewing any sort of communications assets or any questions around promotion of finals testing. And then we'll obviously be working together as we get closer and closer to other announcements within the price. Do you need any kind of video or anything like that before we start from here? Before we start for Australia, do you need any kind of video for marketing? Because we want to get everything out of the way before we leave for Australia. Yeah. I think from our perspective, we do want to get some photos from the teams, maybe. Videos, whatever you can or are able to capture from testing itself or during the testing period, because we'd like to use that for promotion around all the rigorous testing each of the teams are going through. But I don't think there's anything specific that I need from you in advance, although you're always welcome to share content with us. We love to promote our teams and all the. All the great work that y'all are doing. Yeah. And I'll just add so if you have any video content or still imagery that you want to dump into a file inside your team folder that if you just put approved, like put it in a folder and say this is all approved for comms use, that helps us fast track that way as we start to use things. We know that it's all content that you've already approved. So anything you've shared with us previously and approved, we have. But if you have new stuff and you want to approve it for comms use, we always appreciate it. Okay, so one more thing is that, for example, our systems would be. While I'll be there in Sydney, or systems will be operated from us. Mainly from us. The thing is that. Do we need somebody? I mean, when will the fires be added? Will it be daytime in us or night in us or something like that, right? Because we need somebody to check the results. At the US if something goes wrong and so on. So that's what I wanted to know. I can take that one as well, if you like. But it'll be daytime Australia. So whatever. Whatever time that works out to be wherever you are, you can correct it's 12x7am in Sydney at the moment. I'll caveat that against. Of course we want to have some fires burning into the night. Weather and safety is always going to take precedent over test outcomes. And you can do a quick cursory Google to find out what time fires in Sydney typically lit. The other thing is that we already had a review with you about the system. So is there a second system review that after we reach there or by the judges? Is that the one that we had, one on one? No, the one that we had the other week is sufficient at this stage. And then we've got the day of shakeout, the 8th of April. And we'll use that date to make sure that any last gremlins are ironed out in integration. Got a question there about day to day logistics and where we'll meet. I don't have Google Maps up in front of me, but if you Google where RFS headquarters is in Homebush, it's in a pretty quiet area, so we anticipate meeting all the teams in the foyer each day, and we'll then work out how to escort you through the building. Clearly, none of us are staff at rfs, so we won't have access or escort rights. But once you are in the building, RFS knows who you are and knows why you're there. So you will have within limits. Pretty good access through. Thanks, Claudia. Through the building. So we'll just meet downstairs. We'll probably get promulgate an exact time in liaison with rfs, but that's. The pretty vague plan at this stage. Yeah, I'll add to that. I believe RFs are actually coordinating with us to enable guest badges for ourselves that will limit every person who's participating in the testing to a certain area, which your badge will indicate. That's to be confirmed, and that's the reason that we're asking for your information, especially contact info that Claudia has collected, so, yeah. As Nick said, we'll promulgate that sooner before you all arrive on site. Can expect morning arrivals each day. So we can expect any hazard reduction burns to begin relatively early in the morning. So we'll just ensure that everything is communicated. We know that fire weather is also fickle, so we'll expect to get reports from the RFS predictive services about what fire can be expected on any subsequent day so that we're able to communicate with each of you the night before. Colin, can you talk through a little bit of the space? I can. There's a certain level on an RFS this headquarters that will have some room dedicated to us. We intend to provide folks who are on site dedicated workspace. The exact layout of that is still being determined, but that will enable quiet workspace for all some dedicated space for XPRIZE and judges to separately. Convene as needed. Aiming to have dedicated meeting space in case you and your team need to get in touch. We expect it not to be super cozy and overlapped, but you may have a little bit of time to interact with one another. You may see each other in the same room or at close by workstations. But we will all be situated on one floor of the RFS headquarters. There's also small kitchen. Coffee and tea are available. We'll say that it is instant coffee. So whatever pride Aussies have in their coffee is not represented in that kitchen specifically. You can go get coffee on a lower level where it is more delicious. But there is dedicated space for us. You may encounter Smart FS personnel as well. But Xprize will be on site with you at all times. Internet will be there. Yes. We've spoken to the folks who are running their site facilities personnel. We do expect that there will be Internet. They may set up a dedicated hub for us so that it is less interrupted. Their guest wi fi can be a little bit can leave something to be desired. However, they did mention the possibility of enabling a more. Consistent connection than that, and that's what we anticipate. We're working with them on that as well. Ken your items in the chat, we will arrange a more specified calendar, especially on days that where that fire operations are occurring, with RFS observing and bringing ground data and your teams delivering data. We will have specific schedules and we would expect teams to be on site during those days. However, without fire operations in place, we may host some conversations. Meetings. That space will be open to us. But you're not obligated to sit on a day where, unfortunately, we haven't had fire operations. We can also illustrate that a bit more in kind of know before you go type of details. Rest assured, it is a comfortable place to sit and you can find space to manage other work as needed. So from Darling Hawer or Sydney Airport. Right. So the Olympic park is reachable through train. Right. Through Metro or train. Yes, there's a train station in Homebush. I think it's actually called Homebush Station or Olympic park, maybe. And the Sydney trains are quite reliable. If you want to get between Olympic park and the city, or domestic and international airports, like Andrea said, just be conscious that there is a major event there at Easter. As well. So it's going to be busy. Accommodation etc will be more expensive the closer you get to the harbour. And if you step away from the harbour, it's going to become a little bit more affordable. I had a question about their rules. So in the reporting rules. There was this line about the ambition is to identify all fires within a minute. However, this will be driven by overpass timing of particular satellites. So how is that determined? With satellite? Is that the declaration based on what this source was for each team, or is there a reference satellite timing? Overpass timing. Now, it's depending on what satellite you're using at the time. So we've used your declared satellites in order to plan out what satellites we know that are going to be taking observations. We'll be working with RFs to time ignitions with satellite overpasses. One of the many constraints and targets that we're aiming for in this competition. But those spacecraft that you declare will be working to those to time overpasses, the 1 minute will be measured. Using that specific spacecraft. Now, we acknowledge that in some cases, overpass timings will completely preclude the one minute being achievable. We know that that is worked into the scoring criteria the judges are operating off, but we'll be aiming to test how quickly, if you have a good overpass. How quickly? You can get the data down. And conversely, when you have a bad overpass, What that means for your reporting ability. Yeah. Just to add to that. That's why all. That's why we're asking you to submit all of this information. Along with just the detection. So we need to know which aircraft, which satellite you use, in which sensor on board that satellite you're using so that we can work out the footprint of that center and when it comes over the fire. And then you'd have a one minute from that time. So we're going to be working it on after the fight. Okay? So it's not that you need to detect when the fire starts, it's basically when the satellite passes one minute of that. Exactly you would. Still, the idea is that within time. If organizations are going to invest in this type of technology, the number of birds in the sky would increase. And then you could almost get that metrics of being able to detect a fire within one minute of ignition if there's enough birds in the sky. But, yeah, that's not where we're at at the moment. So, yeah, the expectation is within one minute of satellite overpass. So that means if someone has multiply sourced data, you'll just take the first overpass out of that. List of satellites and use that as the time reference. Yeah. I mean, if you're sending multiple detections of the same fire. Yeah. It would just be based on each overpass. And when that detection is reported by you guys. Okay? Okay, that makes sense. Thank you. And, I mean, if you're looking at, like, multiple sensors as well, if you have an overpass and you've got multiple centers and maybe the AI system that you're using on one satellite overpass has a pretty low confidence level, you can still report it with that confidence. Level. As being low. And then when another pass overpass comes in and it's higher confidence, then we could also take into consideration that early one. Although it had a low confidence, you were still correct on detecting it. But essentially each time it's within one minute of satellite overpass is what we're looking for for the detection. But, yeah, if you got more report detections within a very close time frame. Because you're using more report satellites. We're just interested in each overpass at that time.

Me: And is there a fire size as well, at which point kind of the clock starts. So you start with a match and then it grows. Right.

Them: Yes. I mean. Ideally, the competition within the. Within the guidelines it states fires of 10 meters squares and below is the aim. So the fires are going to be. The larger ones are going to be lit, and then we're going to be monitoring how big that fire gets. But we're not going to light it just as a satellite's passing over. We'll be trying to, but it just depends on when RFS needs to be able to light that fire. But essentially, we'll be testing the team's abilities to be able to detect fires below 10 million squares as well. So it could be very small fires, it could be larger ones, and we're just going to see which teams are the most accurate, the fastest to detect, and they've got a better sense of resolution or AI system to be able to detect those smaller fires. If you use Dev Check 4 as a guide, the timings that RFS took of the ignition was the time that the first blob of drip torch fuel hit the ground. And that's what we will be using for the ignition time. So that's a 1 inch diameter. So that's the ignition. Time that we're working off. And clearly, growth will be monitored as far as we can and as safely as we can. So I hope that helps. They're going to be quite small when we determine ignition occurs. With the operation style be similar to the last round in the sense that screen sharing and sharing information through Slack Channel, things like that. We expecting things to be similar to that? So as far as notification fire actually going ahead goes, we will establish a URL for you to ping that will notify you that a file has gone ahead. That won't be in real time, though. You'll be notified. Less than two hours after ignition that a particular ignition has gone ahead. And the reason for that is that, as we've spoken a bit before, we have finite resources. There will be more fires in New South Wales than we are able to monitor at any one time. Some will be HR Burns, some will be live fires. We expire as an RFS don't have the resources to attend every single fire. So we will let a fire go and we will tell you at some point, listen, two hours in which file we have been monitoring. Do. I have a question about the rating. The way the teams will be rated is based on their average performance. Because sometimes some team performs very well for sometimes their performance degrades and again they perform well. So how will the teams be rated? That's a great question. An average approach is going to be used. That said, in order to work out the average, we will use a variety of different fires. So that if you are good at spotting broadacre burns on the east coast, where it's heavily populated, that's going to be one thing. But if you can detect live fires out on agricultural land that arguably might have a larger financial impact to the community, that will be weighted differently as well. So we will set our sample size in a way that. Well, we're going to try and eliminate gaming of the system. But it will be weighted average. Yes. Yes. Weighted average, yes. I am reading the questions in the chat. I'll just Give me a second. While Nick reads the ones, I can answer the one about the event. So we are going to have on the April 15th, we're going to have our VIP event. We will have opportunities for all of the teams to do a presentation. Right now, we've got about seven to eight minutes per team. And we're going to do it in two different blocks. So there'll be a group of teams that are going to do it kind of earlier, and then a little bit later, we'll be sending out some emails with more information so that you guys, we can try to make it as best as we can. Not in the middle of the night. If there's people who are presenting who are not on site. And then followed the presentations. We'll have like a Q and A generally kind of like a panel discussion. So we'll send that agenda out. We have a draft run of show. We're just getting like final approval for some different things. And just for you guys to know, our CEO, Anusha and sorry is planning to be there. And we will have representation from several of our sponsors, along with other folks within the fire community, rfs and other key people. The registrations would be? I mean, registrations are free, right? Or do we have to check anything? No. For the April 15th. If you're on site, you are registered. And if you have any key sponsors or partners that are in Australia, you guys can send us up to two names. We have. We can potentially have more people come to the event at rfs, but for the dinner that's going to be that evening. We have limited capacity, so if you have more than two people, just kind of give us your priority for who you would want to have at the dinner up to two, not your team members, but your additional guests. We'll put that in an email, too. You don't have to remember. Okay, Nick, back to you. I'm typing like a man possessed but at half past seven my skills are limited. Okay, so your first question I think I've answered know your second? Sorry. Your question, how will the notification be delivered? It will be via a URL that we've been process establishing. We'll let you know, but you'll need to ping that URL. For the daily report should be covered. Note for the daily report on every single file you see. You may choose to provide additional detail on the LGA that you know was burning, but report every single file you've identified. Regardless of whether we use it as a competition. Measurement point for rfs. Nick, can you talk through how the daily report should be delivered and then any delivery of Data for the 15 minute updates? Okay, so Daily Report should just be delivered to wildfire@xprize.org because that is just. It'll just be a Word document or a PDF, however you choose to send that format through. So that's. Just send that via email. What was the second half of that question, Andrea? Well for the data for the daily updates. Also. If you can summarize all that in an email, that would be great. Okay. Yeah, we can do that. Y. That's probably the best way to do it. That way. When we can write it down its own unambiguous. Are there any questions in the chat that haven't been answered? If so, feel free to shout them out if we want some practice between now and April 5th before we leave, is it possible to get. Some practice fires. I would suggest you talk to folks that have. We won't be. We're not going to be delivering any of that data. In advance of finals just due to kind of capacity. Yeah, we did. Open. We did offer that at the end of last year. So there was a series of fires that were done by RFS that we documented the ground truth data for so that you guys could kind of tune your system. There's no plans at the moment to do another one of those. Check in. Yeah, but that was in a different season. Right. So because this is a different season. Right. That's why I was in Criminal. In one of the documents we sent out, I'm trying to remember which one, we provided some information about RFs and their planned burns. So they are doing hazard reduction burns and. So if you go to their website, you can see what's planned, but as you know, they can plan it. And it may not happen. So it does rely on you checking and basically verifying with your data. We can drop that in Claudia, would we? Can we add that to the list of things to send to the team so that everybody has easy access to the rfs? Hazard reduction. Schedule. Other questions. Abby, do you want to go through any of the comms stuff? Not at this point. So having some audio issues, so I kind of use the chat. But are you still expecting folks to use the SV setup that we had in the last conversation? How does ESRI fit in? Those two weeks to resubmit. Live data through our database that you want to have access to. Plot like you did in the last round? Or do you just expect to have that daily report and then get a live demo? On that day. That's set up for everybody. Yeah, sure. I'm happy to take that. Ken, I've answered your question with a single word yes. But now I understand a bit more of the context of why you're asking. The answer is yes. And we won't be using the same portal per se that we did last time, but for us, the OGC standard. The agency suite of standards is the baseline for how you should be looking to deliver data during the competition and post competition, because that is the standard. The way that we are using. For us. Sorry, for us, for the judges to interpret OGC data is the ESRI suite of tools. Now, we acknowledge there are some limitations. But that is the judging method that we will use for comparative analysis. The real time facet of judging comes in through using your own system. So during the day, we will primarily. The judges. Sorry. Will primarily be watching your system in order to ascertain the real time effectiveness intelligence detections. That you are that your system is able to provide within seeking 15 minute updates, daily reports and the end of final report to reference out to OGC material that we will then ingest into ESRI to conduct a comparative analysis. I keep saying we, but I do mean judges. So I guess how you interface with ESRI is really up to you. We'll be limiting the we're not going to be judging you on how well you interface with ESRI per se, but we will be judging you on how you deliver OGC data and how quickly you are able to do that there are competition artificialities that we recognize. But we still need a common judging platform in order to conduct a comparative analysis, so that's what we're doing. Okay. So if I may, if I may trouble you for some clarifications and add then. So in the previous round, you had historical content that was being populated into database that was linked into the judging platform that had all these apples to apples between the teams. Now, this is going to be a library environment. We're certainly going to hook up probably the same database, but is there any way we could do some tests to make sure that judges are seeing the data to come in like like you did previously? There was some warm up submissions to make sure that data is being submitted and it is coming as expected. Like kind of a smoke test for Es, because ESRI was completely differently before. Now. It needs to change. I don't know if there's been. There's been a new portal set up. It's live. And that duration is for two weeks. It's not just for a 25 period. Right. So. So it is a longer. Cadence to submit and continue to submit. Yes, we can work with. For teams that are integrating with ESRI as their primary, we will work with you in order to make sure that you have that integration nailed down. But I guess that's also the point of these teams calls, that we're having the one on ones to line these sort of things out. To make sure that access is granted. So I'd urge you to bring up those points in that forum so that we can tackle them one on one. Sure. So is there a point of contact? Sorry to continue to add to this, but I just wanted to clarify this because of. The luxury of having that live data provided to cluster report. That comes later. I just want to make sure that there is somebody on the ESRI side that says yes, this is set up exactly like it was before. Now we're wired to receive this data live. Like is anybody on the other side that can check and give us a green light before this live event begins, if you could manage. Some information around that, that would be great. Or we can certainly call the number that's provided, if that's the direction. If. Now, if you have specific questions, can you put them in an email and we can then run that to ground with our contacts in esri. Okay. Thank you so much. I appreciate. So tomorrow we are going to send you. By tomorrow, we are going to send you the list of satellites. What if we integrate some more satellites between tomorrow and April 5th? Keep them coming as soon as you know about them. Super Tick. Okay. I. I would also maybe say if you have. If you have satellites that you may use, declar them and just say that they're not yet confirmed. That way, at least we have it. Kind of on our radar. Would it be possible to maybe get a document with the flow, like what's expected? Ok. Fire starts. @ this point, the competitor is expected to send. Their findings to this pre specified URL at this point and like just the regular flow what's expected of the competition. Hopefully at least whatever is available, even at rough draft. Before the team calls. My team call hasn't happened. So just in case, if there's, you know, any issue about being able to deal with any of that for our system, then we can discuss that during the team call, maybe. Absolutely. Aman. Yeah. And I just. So you guys have the rules and regs and the procedures. I would just recommend, like, making sure that you've read them really carefully. It's outlined, hopefully very clearly what you're supposed to deliver, when and where. We are giving options. Because you can use your own system, but if it's not clear, definitely refer back to any questions that you have specific to like page number within either the rules and regs or the procedures. Yeah, I. I did go to the rules. I was just. I. I don't remember reading anything about the SD integration, like how their data format, what to expect, or if there's going to be a rundown or things like that. Just some of the questions that are coming up. I just don't remember seeing anything about that. That's why I was wondering if. If any of the data is available or anything is decided, then if we have any questions, at least by the teams call, we'll have some. Yeah, There is a schema coming out, Nick. What's the timeline? So that was a question on when this. When this schema will be up. Correct. I'd say by this time next week. Great. Thank you. Looks like we have three more minutes. Are there any more questions? Great. And as promised, we'll follow up with an email. Writing all the workflows, and we'll share the hazard reduction schedule if we can get the contact numbers. Whom to contact, you know, once we are there in Sydney and so on, like last time we got in Melbourne. You know your contact numbers and so on. That would be good. We'll send it out again. Thanks again, everyone, for. Thank you. Connecting. Thank you very much. Thanks, Al. Great session, everyone. Thank you.
